One of the greatest features of this property is the geography. Being on one of the highest ridges in Studio City gave us great inspiration for our design concept. Our goal was to draw more attention to their view all throughout our design by removing any previous obstructions. It was also important for our client and for us that we maintain the original mid-century architecture style as part of our remodel. Much of the material choice lends itself to a more contemporary style with beautiful wood paneling and exposed beams. The exterior was also altered to look more contemporary by allowing for more contrasting materials rather than simple stucco all throughout.

The original interior of the home was very segmented which ultimately prevented us from maximizing their view. They originally had a large wall blocking the view as you entered the home. Now as we come through the entrance it opens up to a large great room with an adjacent kitchen and dining area together as one space. The large transparent wall creates a nice indoor-outdoor area from the great room taking complete advantage of the view. The roof was even designed to feel as though it was “taking-off” towards the edge of the ridge. It extends itself out over the back patio area to create shade, drawing great inspiration from the wing of an airliner and directs our focus out towards the back of the home. The open floor plan allowed for the home to feel much larger and kept with our goal of utilizing their view to the fullest potential.

We carried this design concept into the new master suite which also included its own indoor-outdoor area from the bedroom and from the bathroom. The raised ceilings helped to stick with our concept of enhancing the property's elevation while also allowing the skylight to provide more natural lighting to the space. We kept with natural materials in the wood flooring and bathroom tiles to capitalize on the indoor-outdoor feel of the master suite.
