On this property our client had purchased a Spanish Style builder home. The main problem with the home for our client was that the original design was missing much of the authenticity of a true Spanish Revival period home. What he had purchased was more of a stucco builder box in a spanish home style. Our goal was to transform the home to authenticate the period more appropriately. We created a new entrance portico and replaced windows to help create a more human scale. We included a series of heavy timber corbels for the roofing eaves, heavy timber was also used for the roof edges and other key elements to help provide some warmth to the home. Natural stones like limestone were also used to help differentiate the different massing elements as well as to create an appealing composition. The interior had a beautiful great room area with high ceilings and exposed beams but much of it was missing the proper spanish detailing. Period accurate corbels and metal strapping were introduced to keep with the authentic theme and warm up the space. We also gutted the kitchen and bathrooms in order to add Spanish tiling that was true to the revival period, once again including limestone with travertine style accent walls. The interior designer on this project helped us to include furnishings that captured the spanish style we were looking for. The furniture they sourced was more transitional rather than antique or dated which helped us keep with our theme while also maintaining a fresh feel. We also created new lighting to help dramatize the clients artwork, the new beams, and to provide more clarity towards all the new detailing we included.
